## Non-Technical Skills

My non-technical skills. They are where I currently hold most of my confidence as a software engineering apprentice. As I have now wrapped up two weeks of work at my host company and collaborating with my Develop Carolina full-stack project team, I am definitely noticing how these skills are easily transferable to this line of work. I’m getting reacquainted with what some of them are because at first it was hard to recognize them in such a different context. Reflecting on these past two weeks, I think the things that stood out as most useful were: my communication, bravery, friendliness, organization, ability and desire to teach, working in a team, ability to leverage systems thinking for efficiency and the ability to show up to every meeting engaged and with a positive attitude.

In my host company, I do not feel very confident yet in many aspects of the job. I think this is probably normal given how new I am. I am still trying to get an understanding of how the systems work, how to integrate into my team with their pre-existing dynamic and definitely learning how I’ll be able to interact with the codebase of our team’s project. I did some things this week to test out my bravery: I spoke up and asked a lot of questions in a meeting of 13 people where I was the only woman, I used my previous training in UX to help participate in creating value statements and ask good questions about design systems for reusability and uniformity, I reached out to people to introduce myself and try to build some relationships and despite feeling incredibly tired and overwhelmed by all that I didn’t know, I showed up to every meeting with a smile, curiosity and interest in how my teammates were. 

In my Develop Carolina project group, I am intentional to make sure to check-in with each member about how they’re doing at their job site and in life in general. That is important to me to prioritize the people over the product and I want to hold steadfast on that in any environment I am a part of. I started a shared google doc immediately to record our meetings, ideas, research and resources and well as next action steps going forward. It holds our shared (currently empty) GitHub repo, shared Figma collab file, shared Trello board amongst other things. I shared with them the efficiency tools that I’ve implemented and how I think they’re best used, past projects that used tech stacks we’re interested in and things I’ve learned at work that I think we can introduce into our project. I am excited to think of one of our group members as our client that we are building a site for. I am happy to be on a team with friendly people who are easy to communicate with and balance out my anxiety surrounding time with their ease and enthusiasm. I was really happy to be able to teach my team how to use Figma and build design prototypes, as well as discuss with them the efficiency of time and money on UX related investments in software development. 

I can already see how these skills will be useful to me in what I’m currently doing, so it’s not a big stretch to see how I can leverage these skills in the future to help future employers in the Software Development Lifecycle. Being able to prioritize what to work on (because time is money), identifying opportunities for improving team dynamics, identifying opportunities for improving systems for efficiency and reliability and being enjoyable to work with are all things that will benefit my future employer that I can bring as an employee. It is important to recognize that these things have gotten me to this point and will probably continue to be more important than my technical knowledge as I go forward. I know I’ll experience lots of growing pains as I learn how to grow into this job, but I’m grateful to know that I’ll be able to lean on my non-technical skills in my discomfort. 
