## Skills and Accomplishments

I am hunched over a steering wheel right now. In my car, parked on a dark street on a miserably wet and cold night. I'm writing this post at my son's soccer practice on my phone. But honestly, I could not feel more grateful for the opportunity to do so. I am a software engineering apprentice. I almost cannot believe it as I type it with my two frigid thumbs. 

Before getting here, to this highest of highs: blogging at Wednesday night soccer practice by the fluorescent glow of the street lamp, I was a teacher–and more importantly, a mom of two active and vibrant young boys. I was good at both, really good. You don't have to take my word for it, other people regularly gave me this feedback personally and professionally. In my most recent job, I taught adult students English as a Second Language. Some were 65, some were 19, some were refugees with no literacy skills and some had nursing degrees from their home countries. They texted me long after I left my position…I think because I care about them and that was palpable to them across all of our differences and language barriers. I had to translate their What'sApp messages from Arabic so I could understand them and then sent messages back in Arabic or Spanish or whatever their first language was. 

I didn't plan to leave this position or this profession, but COVID left a wreckage of school and childcare problems for many people (myself included). I was unable to continue teaching in person while my kids were getting sent home so often, and for days at a time. I was frustrated and a bit hopeless because I wanted to make valuable professional contributions, but I needed to take care of my kids. Like some people do in this type of a bind, I did something crazy. I enrolled in a remote intro to Python course. That was 15 months ago.

Now, I am a software engineering apprentice. On my first day, both my kids stayed home from school with coughs while I worked. If there were ever a sign from the universe that I have made a smart move, that seems like the one. Not many people get opportunities to get a fresh start like this, especially in a field this innovative, flexible and exciting. To me this apprenticeship means a chance to make valuable professional contributions and be able to take care of my kids. It means a chance to start over professionally, building technical acumen and coupling it with the years I worked to develop relationship building and teaching skills. It means the chance to work hard at something that could potentially help people like me or my family. It means having the opportunity to represent women, moms/parents, teachers and families of young kids in the development of software products that are changing the landscape of how we live. What I can definitively say is that it means a lot more to me than writing code.

Apprenticeships offer people like me the chance to build a new career, while helping to fulfill a highly needed role in our job market. I will not take this opportunity for granted. Computer science or coding weren't things that I was exposed to in my education. I think that's far too common for many kids, but probably more so for girls. If I were to happen upon it sooner in my education, maybe I would have taken to it like how I have these past 15 months. I hope to develop in every way I possibly can during this apprenticeship because I feel I owe it to those who have made this opportunity possible for me and definitely for those who have helped me to get to this point. Growth has always been important to me, but this role feels designed to ignite my growth. I want to develop as a programmer, a problem solver, a prompt engineer, a researcher, a communicator, a team member, a leader, a listener, a student, a teacher and still most importantly– as a mom.
