## Ecosystem
Last week, the Executive Director of Build Carolina, Lelia King, came to speak with our cohort about the tech talent ecosystem in South Carolina. She gave us insights into how the program came to be and why there is a strong need for programs like this to fill out certain parts of the tech talent ecosystem. Our cohort is a very good representation of individuals that come from the demographics that are currently lacking in the tech talent ecosystem. We have women, career changers, LBGTQ and Latinx representation currently among us…and don’t forget the mom/caregiver quotient, yours truly. Each of us brings unique experiences and background to our roles within our host companies. I am finding that to those already a part of this ecosystem, we are a welcome addition and bring refreshing outsider perspectives. Although, I still notice to others that we are not totally accepted or completely welcome in this space. Thriving ecosystems usually attribute their success to biodiversity, and in this case human diversity. So by that metric, I think the takeaway is that the tech talent ecosystem in South Carolina (or otherwise) is still on its way to thriving. 

As for my current place in the tech talent ecosystem, I’d say I’m still in the emerging growth phase like a newly sprouted tree fighting for space in the canopy for sunlight. Other more established trees provide protection from bad weather; some share their habitat and symbiotic organisms with me, while others continue to grow out of bounds not noticing the resources they are taking up, leaving many younger trees without sunlight. You notice that the invasive species don’t want us there competing for resources. I hope to one day be a mature tree that has signs of resilience from weathering many storms that can protect and shepherd in the new growth, always willing to share the sunlight because I understand how thriving ecosystems work. Everyone needs some sunlight in order to be a productive member of this ecosystem.

I have already experienced how this ecosystem works in action. I described it to my cohort as being like a Montessori education model, where the big kids teach the little kids how to learn and they do so together. We’re currently the little kids, but maybe one day we’ll be the big kids who have the honor of shepherding in and teaching the little kids how to exist in this space. It seems that trees of the same, less dominant species need to do this for their own because they have specific advice on how to adapt and grow among the invasive species in this forest. I have experienced this from the women in more experienced roles reaching down to pick me up when my sunlight was getting threatened, or the previous Develop Carolina graduates (of my same less dominant species) who give me the best advice on how to adapt and be resilient in the bad weather that comes. I am eager for my time to be in their place and I think about that possibility often because I find it motivating and I know it’s not guaranteed. This ecosystem is currently unbalanced, lacking the conditions for our species to thrive without adaptation and resilience. I’m fighting hard to keep my space in this ecosystem so I can experience passing on this survival advice to the next young tree with the hope that one day, we may be able to be a part of a thriving and biodiverse ecosystem.  
