## Milestones
What is a milestone? To me, this often carries the connotation of being something that you accomplished. But… the denotation is something that you overcame, like stepping over stones that are in the path that leads to your ultimate goal or destination. These are the experiences that are in my mind all of the time for better or worse. 

I am 38 years old. I know you’re not supposed to say this in professional settings, but the reality is that if someone is going to discriminate against me for my age, they’ll do it if I say it or not. I’d rather just say it. I don’t like elephants in my room and I find a lot of value in saying the quiet parts out loud, despite what legal and corporate advice touts. I have two kids that are 9 and 6 years old. That’s first and third grade for the people less familiar with kids. They are both wonderful kids that are highly social and involved in many activities, which comes with a lot of responsibility on my part to make these things happen. I am a former teacher that some have described as bubbly, outgoing and talkative. I am a woman. There! It’s out. 

All of these things that I’ve just confessed in my little corner of the internet are things that lots of evidence and data have shown are things that keep people like me from flourishing or even entering the field of software engineering. This was an important realization for me to have this week because I notice that I’m trying to conform to the current culture at my workplace. But–this is dumb. Many people have already put in time and shared their research that this system is not designed for people like me to succeed in it. So why am I trying to adapt to this system when I already know better? I think I just have to say the quiet parts out loud and operate as I know how even if it’s different from the current norms. 

I’m noticing a lot of dissonance about what I’m hearing about being yourself, asking questions, not observing hierarchies and being innovative vs. how things really are day-to-day. There is hierarchy, there is a culture of ‘interns are to be seen and not heard’ and the entire system is designed around the comfort of the people that have flourished for many years in these environments. Knowing this, how are you supposed to feel comfortable giving feedback, asking questions, being vulnerable to learn, make mistakes or say ‘I don’t understand this’? If I go to your house, do you welcome me, invite me in and tell me what exists and how to find what I’m looking for—or—do you just let me come in without greeting me, without telling me where things are or how to find what I need? And…which of these are more efficient for me being able to feel like home and flourish in this space? I know my answer, but I notice not everyone sees things as I do. This has been hard for me to figure out. 

As I’m doing this apprenticeship, I am still working another job. It is hard, it is full-time, it is unpredictable and it is unpaid. The hours can be unreasonable, it makes it hard to have any free time to do things I enjoy or just allow my brain to catch up and cognate on the crazy amount of new things that I’ve been exposed to throughout the week. This other job is tough, but it makes me better at every other thing that I do. The only thing is, most other people don’t see it that way. They see my other job (being a mom) as a weakness or detriment to working in this environment. I have a choice here: do I hide my other job so that these people will accept me or do I inform them about what it’s like for me so they have a better understanding about the context in my life? I’ve got some real hang-ups here. My grandfather escaped Germany in 1939 during the Holocaust as a German-Jew. His entire family besides him and his brother were murdered by the Nazis despite not being religious. So, trying to fit in, when push comes to shove, didn’t save them and it probably won’t save me here either. I think I may have to just say the quiet parts out loud even if it feels uncomfortable because I could get fired, or in my case ‘not-picked up’ either way. So I might as well try to make it a little more comfortable for myself in the current moment. 

I have had a very hard week. I don’t have time or even access to therapy or someone who understands the ample and unique context that I’m currently trying to navigate. The process of writing this blog is helping me cognate and catch up on how to show up more engaged, curious, excited and comfortable at work and with my Dev. C. project team. I was very concerned that my problems this week were technical problems, but I realized that they were actually people, system and team dynamic problems. I was too caught up in my own overwhelm to notice it, even though I’ve seen this kind of very common problem many times before, just never in this context. 

My challenges these first 3 weeks do remind me of the many milestones I’ve stepped over to get to where I am now. The time my bootcamp instructor, a youngish white male with a CS degree from MIT, snapped at me for not noticing an incorrect indentation quickly enough. Or the time he publicly humiliated me in front of my entire cohort for not testing my white boarding solution about recursion. The time my neighbor who is a divorced, single dad, white male product manager told me, “That’s why you shoulda done this before you had kids,” after I mentioned that these programs are not designed for people who have kids. I guess no one told him about the pandemic and the childcare crisis where over 110,000 child care facilities closed permanently, including the one my kids went to. Or how some of my kids friends’ parents who are highly successful and work at Microsoft, Apple, Workday or wherever avoided talking to me after they knew I quit my teaching job to join a bootcamp. Some would say things, like ‘Oh, that sounds hard’ as they would quickly change the subject or tell me about the vacations they were taking to Europe with the month long sabbatical and generous bonuses their companies granted them. Not all of them are like that. My friends who have ‘normal mom jobs’ like social workers, non-profit workers or the dare I say stay-at-home-moms have been kind as ever with refreshing humanity. 

I think of these things all of the time and I know these kinds of milestones will continue to roll into my path. I’m starting to get into shape and quickly step over them with agility as I move forward on my path. I’m seeking out the things that I enjoy (being around my family), things I find helpful ([this](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1wWHxBYDz2K5YoCGCTZMTemKNWS4v7J1J/view?usp=sharing) and [this](https://www.nytimes.com/2024/02/14/opinion/ai-economy-jobs-colleges.html)) in my unique context of being here and am really trying to feel how I feel in my weekend coding time and tech research (which is exciting, curious and comfortable) in my professional setting. I’ve found some great resources that resonate with me tremendously at this time. I do love taking up space on the internet and I’m glad that I have this artifact to reference as I encounter more milestones. 



