## Languages

At this current point in time, I’m most familiar with Python, JavaScript and Typescript…and (HTML and CSS). I can read a JSON or YAML file or notice when something is written in a language I don’t know (like Go or Java) or a framework structure I’m unfamiliar with like Vue or Angular. I can notice when a file is in a compiled language or sometimes I can even roughly figure out what I’m looking at when I see a code block in a language I’m unfamiliar with. There are different levels of language fluency within natural languages and I think all of those same levels and stages are applicable with programming and computer languages. 

I think it’s interesting to explore how different languages compare to each other, but I’m currently working with a new language challenge: prompt engineering. Although these prompts are natural language based, the structure, language choice and syntax is completely different than how we normally communicate. In teaching we refer to similar language adaptations as academic language vs. social language. You write an academic essay or scientific research paper very differently than you would speak to other people. I’m leaning in to prompt engineering because I love linguistic analysis, I can see how valuable of a skill it is and will become and I want to become highly fluent in prompt engineering or conversational design. Even in my interview at my host company, the interviewer said English will most likely be the programming language of the future. 

I’m still very interested in learning programming languages because at this point, this is still largely what we use to communicate with machines and currently LLM based code generation isn’t highly reliable. However, I’d love to be an early observer of how these technologies function–to understand where and why they fall short and to be able to train and mold their outputs. Natural language is dynamic and changes over time, programming languages are like this on steroids. It is and will be impossible to keep up with every new language at a high level of fluency, but you can gain proficiency at using tools to help manage this overload to see when and how they are most effective. 
