## Mid-Apprenticeship

The past three months have gone by faster than I am able to wrap my head around. The constant influx of new information, the amount of times I’ve been tasked with doing something and simultaneously having the thought “I can’t do this!” and the actual products that resulted from each time that I did do “this”, I can barely keep up with. The pendulum of anxiety, fear, discomfort, pride, accomplishment and confidence has been in full swing. I’d say that more than any specific tech task or otherwise, my ability to ride these waves with more ease and familiarity has been my biggest area of growth. These tasks will constantly evolve and continue to be completely unchartered territory for me, but I can feel myself becoming more comfortable with being uncomfortable. I am both surprised and proud that I’ve been able to face with bravery the assignment of making friends with the discomfort.

Three months ago, I was eager, optimistic, scared and grateful to be in this program and actually being included as a part of this space. I think these were all of the right feelings to have at the start and I’m so glad that I documented them in my blog because my feelings quickly turned to overwhelm, inferiority, exhaustion and hopelessness. It was so helpful and necessary for me to look back at my first blog early and often to remember why I’m here in the first place and to not give up on the person who has worked so hard and took big risks to be here. In the middle of hard times it can be all too easy to abandon your initial motivations and give up on your grit and resilience. Reading my own recorded words promising to show up with my best everyday because I owe it to those that have helped me get to this point and those who are currently supporting me has been pretty critical for me to just keep going. 

To be perfectly honest, life has thrown me (and plenty of other people) some lemons in recent years. Life circumstances and family health issues pushed me to decide to leave the work force and care for my kids when they were young. What I planned to be for a couple years turned into too many when the pandemic destroyed childcare options where I live. These challenges are why I’m here. I’ve been dealing with what I consider to be big challenges for a number of years now. I’m trying to make lemonade with these lemons. I didn’t imagine myself ever being here:  making PRs, cloning giant enterprise level repos, presenting my research on AI Agents and frameworks to large groups of software professionals. When I think about what I’m doing everyday, I’m still in disbelief. I feel very proud of what I’ve accomplished so far and incredibly grateful to have the chance to do so. 

My kids regularly tell me things like “Mom you’re the best coder!” or “You’re working so hard on your homework, I bet you’ll get a 100.” I didn’t expect moments like this to be an added benefit of this journey, but having them see me struggling and working hard to directly face challenges is probably one of the most important things I can model for them to be well-prepared for adulthood. I’m not optimistic that it will be financially viable for me to continue chasing this dream if this opportunity should fail to pan out, so for now in this next (and last) three months of my apprenticeship–I want to “leave it all on the field” so I can look back and know that I gave it my all no matter what, not just for myself, but also for everyone else who’s a part of this journey with me. 
