## Collaboration
During my bootcamp, we went on a virtual field trip to a company called OneSignal. It was a great opportunity to talk with several teams at that company and then each of us had a chance to meet with an engineer one on one for an hour. The software engineer I met with was an iOS specialist and had worked at several companies before landing his role at this company. He very generously told me about how he got to where he did and told me about several hackathons he participated in that were great experiences for him. He summed it up by saying, “this career is like building group projects together, I love it.” That has stuck with me ever since because I have always liked this idea of a group project when thinking about building software applications. 

Up until now, everything I have built has been on my own. My bootcamp did pair programming exercises, but our final project was on our own and I really enjoyed learning this way while I solidified my understanding of these new tools. However, I realize now in my host company and my Dev. C. team that software engineering is a team sport. I have thought about this in a way that makes sense to me since I began in this program…team sports. I have heard the comparison that software engineering is like being an athlete, the more practice and reps you do, the better you’ll become. You have coaches and mentors along the way, but in most software jobs you have teammates too. 

Collaboration is the foundation of every successful team. It has so many benefits: having different perspectives on solving problems, having a sounding board for your ideas about how to solve problems, other people to rely on when you need help, engaging in learning with others to help it stick more…I could go on. Team sports have interesting things to consider: teams can have members of differing ability levels, different role players that can work together to have great outcomes if used effectively, more experienced players can help bring up newer rookies. I’m noticing how at my host company and in my Dev. C. team all of these things still hold true in building software. It can be a fun exercise to think about how each of team members align to a soccer or basketball team. I’ve been thinking about this for a couple of weeks now 😆 (blame countless hours of coaching and assisting with youth sports). I’ve identified who’s the defense (backend), midfield (senior engineers going back and forth) and strikers (frontend) and peripheral roles that act as keeper or team manager. It makes a lot of sense to me in this analogy and I see the value of how these position specialists work together in collaboration to get their desired results using skills like communication, prioritization and time management. 

Although I was offered the chance to work on a project on my own for Dev. C, I chose to work with a team because I hadn’t done it before. It is out of my comfort zone, which I’m told is what this apprenticeship aims to do and I’m learning so much from the experience already. There is still so much to learn about working on a team in software, but it feels like a helpful and appropriate experience to have in order to be able to do this as a career effectively. 
