## Time

My 5th grade teacher, Mrs. Griffith, used to say “You don’t have time, you make time.” This is wisdom that is perhaps lost on 5th graders, but I’m glad she floated the idea to us because I think of this statement every single day in my adult life. It is very true that I can’t make more time, it is very true that I have more responsibilities to accomplish everyday than time to do them in and it is VERY true that I have limits of my human capacity. Therefore, learning to prioritize what is most important, being ok with not completing everything on the to do list and allowing some things to float is a process that I’m continually working on and refining.

My kids won’t be this age ever again, my body won’t be this age ever again and I won’t be able to have a re-do for health lost during this time in terms of sleep, lack of exercise or taking care of myself otherwise. While this program is an INCREDIBLE opportunity and a big chance to invest in my future, I will still need to make time to be able to survive getting through it. This will require an ongoing assessment of what is the most important thing to get done at a given time and how much time am I willing to invest in these tasks, given that many could theoretically be an endless pursuit of a state of completion. 

At this current juncture in the program, I am glad that I have been able to meet many goals: getting feature one completed for demo on our full-stack project, all of my blog and assignments completed for Develop Carolina coursework and all of my tickets and assigned tasks completed at my host company. However, I don’t feel very good about the lack of time I’ve been able to devote to my home, family or health. I have been in survival mode in this program, which is a mode I am very familiar with through caring for a newborn and a toddler at the same time, teaching in New Orleans after Katrina, pandemic parenting, coding bootcamp and parenting, working full-time while getting a Master’s Degree and renovating a house. 

As I list out these times in my life and I can continue thinking of more where I was operating in survival mode, I’m hoping that I haven’t made a habit out of it because I know it’s no way to live. However, I’m struggling with how to complete all the things that I need to in this program without spending time as I am. I’m looking at this as a short term investment for a long term outcome. But, I have been struggling with the thought that this is quite possibly an overinvestment of my time away from family, home and health that may not end up with the long term outcome I was hoping for. This isn’t something I can control and I can’t see the future, so I’m currently trying my best to put these thoughts aside so I can focus on what is in front of me at any given moment. I know that the systems in which I am trying to operate weren’t designed for me to succeed in and are full of impossibility. How am I supposed to be a working mother when school ends at 2:20 and work ends at 5pm? When childcare costs more than what I can earn working full-time and still afford other basic needs? I thought by going on this endeavor of software engineering, working east coast hours and working remotely that I would be able to hack some of these systemic impossibilities–but, at this current time I’m finding most of this to still be untrue to some degree. I’m exhausted from being awake before daylight and going to sleep after dark, not having weekends or downtime and working longer than the allotted 8 hour day almost everyday. I know I need to set firmer boundaries about time and priorities going forward because even though three months is short, it is still long enough to do some real damage too. I am still strategizing how to work smarter, not harder while still accomplishing goals to a degree I feel proud of in this program and still meeting my parenting responsibilities. 
