## Open-source

In honor of open-source software week, I decided to check another milestone off of my list in my software developer journey--I went to my first tech meet-up. It was an Ollama meet-up, which is an open-source LLM that currently has about 68 different models to pick from. I know this because I researched this LLM library at work and evaluated all of its models to recommend one that would best suit our needs. One of the presenters at this meet-up was the creator of one of the models (Dolphin) and presented on why he developed an uncensored model and how he was able to do that by filtering out “restrictions”. Another presenter was from Weviate, also open-source, but is a vector database that he used in conjunction with Ollama to find Waldo in a Where’s Waldo image by splitting up the larger image into smaller files that were stored as embeddings within the vector database and then searched to find Waldo using an image search model within Ollama. Another presenter worked for Ollama (which I was unaware that people worked for open-source software products) and presented that he changed serial client requests into concurrent client requests by changing distribution of the PCI bus, so many requests could be made by multiple clients at the same time. 

This was an awesome experience with many takeaways I’m still reflecting on. First, I understood 98% of what each presenter was talking about and even the code that they demoed (it was all in Python and some of it I’ve already been exposed to through my research for work). Second, it was almost impossible to ignore that there were 6 women in a room of ~150 men. Every woman there (all 5!) was accompanied by another man except for one brave soul—this stood out to me a lot. Third, it really challenged my understanding of what open-source meant. This was a swanky event space on the second floor of the Ferry Building in San Francisco, overlooking the Bay and Bay Bridge. They were giving away branded swag that wasn’t cheap and FIJI waters and other expensive beverages. The event was hosted by staff wearing pretty nice Ollama swag: fancy shirts, very nice pullover sweaters, etc. One man enthusiastically greeted me when I came in, that’s when I first realized that I was one of 3 women there at the time. I asked him, if this is open-source, how can you afford all of this? He told me they had many “fans”, to which I replied “V.C. fans?” and he just laughed. I don’t understand all of the inner workings about funding at all, but it definitely seems like a convoluted area and definition. 

I was very excited to be at this event. I learned a lot, thought about complex topics and re-ignited my engagement and motivation for why I am here in the first place. I was definitely riding a high after leaving for a few days. But, I still can’t help thinking about how imbalanced that crowd was. It’s not hard to figure out. I myself had to get a babysitter to even attend. I notice the young woman on my full-stack project is settled with babysitting her younger sibling during pair programming and an older woman at work is taking care of her aging parents and women like me are in the sandwich spot of caring for children while on the brink of caring for aging parents. I know that men also have some of these responsibilities, but I think it’s very clearly more of a woman’s role in our society, even at all ages of womanhood. I know a Machine Learning engineer that asked me why it’s so hard for him to find women engineers to hire and I responded that I don’t think it’s a very friendly career for women as it’s currently set-up. This is a space that rewards those who are on Udemy courses all night and weekends or going to meet-ups and networking when people with family responsibilities and obligations can’t do those things and by people, I am largely referring to women. How are you supposed to keep up with colleagues that are “learning” (really this is working) during the time that you are working to keep other human beings alive and well-cared for? You can’t. As long as this kind of thing continues to be rewarded and preferred, this space will be unfriendly for the majority of women and these ratios will continue to be skewed. It’s such a shame because I really enjoyed being there and I know a lot of other people who have been historically shut out would have too. In fact, I think we’re needed in these spaces in particular to give balance and differing perspectives on how AI in general and open-source AI could help solve or create problems. 
