## Rituals

This week marks my first week that is both as a Develop Carolina Apprentice on Monday and Friday AND a software engineering intern at my host company Tuesday through Thursday. Before it began, I was nervous, but honestly so busy that I didn’t have much time to dwell on it. Now that it has officially passed, I can reflect on how it went throughout the week. It went much differently than I expected. Monday morning, my oldest son woke up with a big allergic reaction to poison oak all over his face and legs. It ended up getting progressively worse until both eyes were swollen shut and the inside of his nose was so swollen that he couldn’t breathe through it. He was given 3 different steroids, stayed home most of the week and improved slowly, but it was a tough week on the home front. 

I found out that I will need to learn new programming languages for my host company and began working with my Develop Carolina team on our final project. I also got two different schedules of baseball practices (one for each kid) and games and soccer too. This week, I let my feelings get the better of me. I’m not proud of it, but I am feeling very overwhelmed. So, I reached out to the wisdom that I could access: my son, Brené Brown and friends. 

I went on a hike with my friend a few weeks ago. She’s a social worker for the county I live in and deals with tragic situations all day long: drug abuse, human trafficking, homelessness, etc. It’s needless to say a TOUGH job with a very high instance of burnout. She’s a mom and a career changer like me–definitely a source of wisdom. She told me that she asked one of her co-workers, who has done this for over 20 years, “How can you still show up with sunshine everyday?” This gem of a woman gave her a pretty off the wall reply, “Honey, I just pretend that they’re not real people.” What?!? What does that mean? This stuck with me for a while. I realized that this was actually genius. Pretending is a human evolutionary advantage to be able to make it through challenging situations. It’s a means of altering our perspective and perception so that we can get our desired outcomes. I bet any engineers reading this are wondering, “how can we get AI to do this for us?”
On Tuesday after waking up at 5am, trying to pretend that my kid wasn’t experiencing anaphylaxis and starting my first day at my host company, I was feeling pretty desperate and not sure how to get in control. So, like most people, I turned on Netflix. Who’s on the feed…Brenè Brown: Courage and Vulnerability. Yep! I did it. You have my full permission to make fun of me. However, over 90% of Dr. Brown’s current work is with Silicon Valley tech companies. So, she may have already been paid anywhere from 2-5 times your yearly salary to speak for an hour or two. Just sayin’. Anyways, I learned that in her decades of research on resilience, all of the people they could find with the most severe forms of life traumas (Holocaust survivors, parents who’ve lost children to cancer, rape victims, etc.) had the same thing in common. It was ‘the story they told themselves’. Now this pretending thing is backed by verified research, so I’m thinking it’s a pretty good place to start. 

I’ve been pretty rocked this week. I’ve been confronted with the conditioning I’ve had over my life as a girl, woman, teacher and mom. Specifically, I’m noticing how willing I am to do unpaid work, sacrifice my well-being, being self-conscious about taking up space or time or being self-conscious about having a TON of responsibilities as a mom at my workplace. I’ve been second guessing things that I used to count as strengths, like my social skills. I learned almost immediately as a teacher that I would learn just as much from my students as they would from me and I carry this concept in parenting. So, I asked my son, “Did you ever have anyone that you felt scared to ask questions to?” He said, “No. Mom, they’re in your computer, it’s not like they can come out and hurt ya!” Who raised this little genius? It’s always amazing how someone outside the context of your problem can navigate it so clearly. 

I think for all of these separate, but valuable experiences, I’m starting to see how I’m going to ‘keep these feelings in check’ (as the blog prompt says). I’m still forming a clearer action plan from my nebular goal, but I have a clear direction. I know there will be a fair amount of pretending involved, I just need to figure out what story I want to tell myself. I know that reaching out to my accessible sources of wisdom will continue to keep me level and I’m very grateful to have them. I know that keeping a good perspective on my problems will be crucial to telling my lizard brain that I’m not being chased by a lion. Someone is asking me to read code off of a computer screen–which are quite different in terms of survival. Most importantly, I think that I need to remember that the things that I’m doing everyday (although sometimes scary and stressful) are super cool and I want to do them. Now I’m off to write the story I want to tell myself. 
