## Accessibility

Accessibility is an important concept in any arena, but as software increasingly becomes necessary in our daily lives it becomes even more important in this arena. In the early days of software, many people could get by in their lives without using any software at all–but, this is surely no longer the case. Software is required for some of the simplest tasks we need to live life or be a part of communities in our country. Nowadays you need software to pay for a parking spot, do your taxes, sign up your kids for school, make a doctor’s appointment, read a menu at a restaurant, use coupons for groceries or renew your driver’s license. These are only a very small sample of the myriad of tasks software is now ubiquitously used for. It has become the expectation that people will adapt to this way of conducting their life. I’ve been surprised by the lack of support for people struggling to onboard to this method of completing necessary tasks and the willingness of a broader community to leave those people behind. 

Accessibility has a connotation of being meant only for people with severe and obvious disabilities, but at the root of this word is another simple and important word–access. When I think of accessibility within the software and technology sphere, I challenge myself to think of it in a more holistic sense. How can we provide bridges or onramps to the vast majority of people to be able to use these services under any number of circumstances? 

I’m sure most of us are surprised to learn how many people worldwide or even in our country identify as having a disability and many more aren’t even recorded within this number. I think of the many disabilities that are not noticeable physically, but impede a person’s use of technology: dyslexia, neurodiverse conditions like ASD or ADHD, dysgraphia, memory loss and/or dementia or colorblindness to name a few. I think about people who don’t have enough money for phone or internet services that are expected to use software as seamlessly as the rest of us. I think of older people or people who have lived most of their lives without technology or software and are expected to adapt on a dime to this way of living. When I think about software and web accessibility, I am always thinking about more than just HTML labels and aria tags for screen readers. I am thinking how can this software be maximally intuitive for its intended use? If I have never seen a computer before, will I be able to navigate this experience and come away in a good mood with my goal completed? 

I think most of us have had the frustrating and demoralizing experience of not being able to successfully use software. This is still a very common problem that I observe everyday and I don’t think it’s going away anytime soon. I have been surprised to learn that many developers are actually not considering the end user when they build. Many times they focus on solving a technical problem and get to a working state without either starting the build from the lens of user access or going through the extra steps to get the product to an accessible state on the late end of the SDLC. Coming from an education background, I’ve had valuable exposure to many different types of students, learning styles and abilities and I can see that experience as an asset in this space. Observing how people of different ages, cultural or linguistic backgrounds or abilities interact with technology will be crucial in providing usable products that solve problems to a customer base that represents our country (or world). 

I see the usability of an application as a possible limiting factor to technology’s ability to solve a given problem. If you’ve created an amazing technological feat, but most people can’t figure out how to use it, then it is in fact not solving any problems at all. I still observe this almost everyday in schools, doctor’s offices, grocery stores, animal hospitals, homework assignments, youth sports sign-ups… this list could become exhaustive. This is at the crux of why I wanted to be a part of the software development community. I want to make these products more accessible to more people so that they can actually benefit from the software in the first place and allow it to solve their problems vs. add to them. This is what motivates me to keep learning, keep struggling and having growing pains and I’m hopeful that one day I’ll actually be able to say I've made some small contributions to making software more accessible.
