## Pair Programming

Pair programming can be an awesome experience to learn new things as a developer, communicate your technical ideas or build upon existing ones. Or….it can be awkward, unhelpful or fear inducing. I’ve had both of these experiences at different times. It’s strange to me that this isn’t acknowledged more than it is because I think this is a pretty normal way to experience pair programming, especially when a new developer. I find it matters a lot (at least to me) to be comfortable with the person first. I’ve seen articles about the value of small talk and I have spent years evaluating how to build relationships with students because I know that this is actually how people learn best. No one is going to learn very much or very well from someone they don’t feel comfortable around, especially in a vulnerable thing like sharing your technical knowledge live with one or possible more people. 

I’ve had to get development environments set up with a tech lead and senior developer watching every choice I’ve made on my screen…which ended up being fine. But, it’s a little annoying that people sometimes make me feel like the odd-man-out for feeling nervous about this. Of course I feel nervous about this…I’m an intern with two people who have probably over 20 years combined experience between them trying to perform understanding that they are evaluating my choices and technical aptitude the entire time. Do we have two teachers come to hover over 5th graders and watch them do math tests??? Of course we don’t–because there’s a collective understanding that this is intimidating and probably won’t inform anyone about how much this kid knows anyways because they’re encumbered by pressure. For some reason, this is largely unacknowledged in software engineering (at least from my time in this space), which I think is weird. You should take the time to get to know someone, especially someone new to programming before jumping on a call to only talk about complex programming tasks and if you don’t understand that, then I think you don’t really understand human nature. If you think the onus is entirely on the new programmer in this situation as a senior developer, then I think you should reconsider your approach. If you’re only there to prove someone doesn’t know something, then you do not understand what teaching is. If you find that someone has difficulty with a concept, then teach them!!!

I’ve seen A LOT of material this week on how women leave tech, are driven out or don’t even enter the field. Something like 14% of software engineers are female and “more than 50 percent are likely to quit before the age of 35, and 56 percent are likely to quit by midcareer.” (Source: https://www.splunk.com/en_us/blog/learn/technical-debt.html) Not even mentioning all of the other people groups who aren’t here either. I have a strong suspicion that this may have something to do with it. 
