
## Responsibilities

Having worked as a software engineer for a bit now, I can say that I have been surprised by the day-to-day responsibilities. I thought that I’d be in code all day everyday, probably doing repetitive tasks that other engineers don’t want to do (because this is usually what interns do), like writing tests or debugging for all day to ultimately find it was from one missing comma or curly brace. 

This past week, I’ve been doing research and breaking down a big research question into organized digestible information to more easily analyze. It reminds me a lot of what I did while researching to write my Master’s thesis and also writing lab reports as an undergrad Biology major. Doing research and compiling the findings into the structure of  a scientific research paper is not what I thought I’d be doing at all! I really enjoyed the process and was really surprised about how familiar this felt despite being about technical information vs. educational research or scientific experimentation. Next week, I’ll be part of a team that conducts interviews with other development teams. To me, this is like user research and I definitely didn’t think this would be what I'd be doing as a software developer. I really welcome the holistic nature of these assignments, especially because I have confidence from past experiences in performing these familiar tasks. 

The amount of collaboration that I’ve experienced this week has been new as well. It’s been so great to talk questions out with other teammates! I’m starting to shed some of that anxiety about not knowing anything because I’m realizing how much of what we’re doing everyday is also unknown to most people I’m working with. I’ve realized that my role as a tech outsider/former teacher and some may say ‘PEBCAC’ (problem who exists between chair and computer), may be worth embracing. I’ve noticed that there seems to be value in being the person in these meetings to ask questions that a normal plebeian would that seasoned software engineers don’t consider at their current experience level. There seems to be business value in human centered design and people who have been implementing very detailed processes that have been highly extracted from final products may not remember or notice what that translates to in their part of a much bigger end product. 

I am continuing to notice how much overlap my prior career has in this current time in my apprenticeship. Doing trainings on AI where they’re explaining how to train neural networks in semantic reasoning, reading comprehension or different language choices and styles depending on a specific scenario is eerily similar to all of the textbooks I still own from my Master’s program which focused on how to train human brains in learning new languages and bilingual education. Time management, language choice, strategizing how to best communicate complex ideas, strategizing on how to best interact with different people on or off your team and thinking about all of the ways you can contribute to your team that may not even be technical implementation are continuing to be recurring themes from my past life that are emerging as day-to day responsibilities as a software engineering apprentice. It is starting to feel like there may be aspects of this career that I could possibly claim as strengths, even as someone who only learned coding very recently. I hope this continues to be true as I progress into less familiar territory because it feels so much better than the alternative.
