Feedback is a timely topic for a blog post as it has coincided with my experience in the apprenticeship. I have had the most difficult time in this program to date last week after receiving what I’d consider to be exclusively negative feedback about my work performance. I was completely taken off guard by this feedback, I didn’t hear specific actionable things I could do better from this feedback and I also didn’t notice any of the feedback to be about the work I’d done. I have reflected A LOT on this feedback experience and what I value in a feedback experience. 

The way I experienced this feedback wasn’t what I needed to improve or grow as a software engineer, employee or co-worker. I didn’t get what I was doing wrong specifically or how I could improve upon it. There was no positive feedback given to me, although I’d been told by people who reported their feedback they’d given only positive feedback. I didn’t think it was very timely since there’s a short amount of time to correct in this program, so I am glad that it was left open for my questions about the feedback so it could be more of a discussion rather than a one-sided communication. I think the word feedback has a connotation of being one-sided, but in practice I think these should be discussions, they should happen early and often, so it is a regular and expected practice for team growth and there should be an equal openness on all sides regardless of title, pay or job responsibility to have a respectful, honest discussion to figure out how everyone can meet the same goal. Identification of this unifying goal is paramount to having these processes work well so that everyone can align and realign to make sure they’re remembering that they’re all on the same side to complete the same goal. The way I’d received this feedback didn’t really accomplish these things and if it did in any way, I think it was an inefficient process that created a lot of distrust and discomfort for me on my team at work. It seems that for some reason or another, my team or former mentor didn’t feel comfortable enough to give me this feedback or couldn’t express what I was doing specifically that they didn’t like. So, I walked into a meeting with someone that I don’t work with to tell me that there was consistent feedback that I was not confident, exploring other opportunities (which isn’t true and a misconstrued interpretation of what I had told someone in confidence) and that any job I did I needed to “kick ass”, which implies that I’m somehow not. This led me to have a lot of assumptions about who was saying what, what they were referring to and how many people were ‘voting me off the island’. I felt a lot of unhealthy distrust, exclusion, disappointment and other not great feelings going back to work with my team after this experience. So, I’d say it wasn’t the type of feedback that I think would help me grow or improve. 

I am incredibly grateful to my support network who helped me navigate this uncomfortable experience and learn from it. I asked for a second meeting to clarify the feedback with the person who gave it to me and asked for specific actionable things I could do to improve my performance (and possibly perception) at work. I made a scary choice to change mentors because after meeting with my support network, they helped me understand that this particular scenario was not working for me and perhaps against me. I will probably have negative repercussions from this choice, but I can honestly say that after meeting with my new mentor that this move is the difference between me sticking out the program or not. I have found a new confidence through this experience that I don’t just have to keep taking things, I can do something about them. While I am very grateful to my previous mentor for the time and energy, I didn’t receive the type of guidance I needed to be successful and ultimately in this program, it is about what I need to succeed. Sacrificing family, health or mental well-being should not be on the table for any job. That is a value that I will not compromise on going forward. Working on my full-stack team, I am still a work in progress on how to do this well, but I can absolutely say that this team operates with a level of kindness, respect and vulnerability that are much healthier than what I have at work. So, I am reflecting on how I can bring these types of regular interactions and discussions onto this team (who may have all voted me off the island), but I am interested in doing what I can where I can to improve and help those around me. I am currently thinking about how integral “feedback” is to working on development teams. I notice that regular teamwork things like sports or other areas are very different from what I’ve experienced and I think usually have better outcomes. They don’t have “daunting” once a quarter “feedback” meetings. Even if I’m asked to participate in giving feedback, it’s not given the same weight or value as the feedback from those in more senior positions, which I think is inherently counterproductive to improvement). Teams talk, discuss, communicate early and often about meeting their shared goal. It isn’t called “feedback”, it’s simply under the blanket of teamwork or coaching. Manager and coach have very different connotations in the English language and I think coaches generally experience better outcomes as a result of the interpretation and execution of that role. 

I am always unsure of documenting my experiences honestly in this blog because I’m not sure who is reading them and the fallout it may have. But…I did get some great feedback early on in this apprenticeship from a very senior female engineer and mom at my workplace. She said, “you’re going to get A LOT of feedback over the course of your career. Just stay true to yourself.” This feedback was truly a gift that I do value, will help me grow and I can carry with me forever. So, I’m documenting my learnings from my honest experiences today and going forward without self-consciousness because I choose to stay true to myself. 
