## Goals
I’m both excited and nervous about the program near ending. Even when I’m having a really hard time, I still really enjoy the classes and learning we do together–I’m certain I’ll miss it. This is space I feel really engaged in and people I really enjoy learning with. There’s not too much time left, which does make me feel simultaneous relief and pressure. I have worked so hard for these past 4 months and I’m ready to have more balance back in my life. However, I definitely want to finish strong so I think that is the perfect place for identifying a goal to maintain focus. I’ve put some thought into this. 

Last week was a tough week for me. I was blind-sided by negative feedback that I was not expecting and didn’t feel was fair. I’ve been intentional about trying to get through this road-bump quickly and strategically. I’ve reached out to people who I feel I can trust, which has been really hard for me to identify after this situation, but I’m so glad that I did. I have discussed and identified actionable steps to go forward with Dev. Carolina staff, my DCA, family and fellow apprentices and been given great advice and was listened to. THIS is what support feels like. I’ve been told that growth periods are really hard, but necessary and I think at this current time I’m definitely in a growth period. It is hard navigating a remote corporate environment. Although I’ve been a professional for a long time, these are very new skills and experiences that I’m learning a lot from–on top of all of the technical knowledge.

I think what I’ve realized this weekend over some sleepless nights is that I’ve been doing a lot of things to appease or please others so far in this program. I’ve wanted to met their goals or expectations and perform to their degree of satisfaction in spite of my own goals, distress or comfort. So, my goal for the rest of this program is to do things for me. Meet goals that I want to achieve with my programming journey, perform to my degree of success and feel pride and satisfaction within myself and not wait for praise from others about my performance. I want to work on things I enjoy again. I want to be occupied by User experiences, design and immersed in frontend code. Straight up. My motivation well has been drained and I’m surviving rather that enthusiastic because I’ve been exclusively working on things for others outside of my areas of interest. I completely acknowledg that this is necessary to a degree in most work environments, but I’m in a work and learning environment simultaneously, so I need something that I like to do to be a part of this last part of the journey to keep my flame-a-fire. I’m not sure what will be the outcome of this apprenticeship, but I think that doing what I enjoy is going to take me further on this journey to becoming a successful software engineer than any work I’ll do to please other people because it will keep my motivated to keep learning, developing and growing.
