## Communication
Communication is an amazing human ability and advantage. It can also be the downfall of great systems or relationships. When there’s a failure of communication in software, you usually get an error back–it either worked or it didn’t. It’s not always so clear with people and/or teams. There are so many nuances in paralinguistic cues, language choice, perception, mood and circumstance of all parties involved. Communication is such a complex topic, it is an entire course of study at many colleges and universities. It is surprising and interesting to me that in this profession, communication is revealing itself to be one of the pillars of a successful software engineer and moreover, successful software development teams. 

There are plenty of stereotypes about software engineers being isolated, introverted non-communicators that sit alone in a basement and only interact with their computer and maybe some video game competitors. It has been really interesting to see so many different types of software engineers in both my host company and in Develop Carolina. I assume that really great managers or tech leads can identify different strengths they see in each developer they draft for their teams depending on the project (another sports analogy 🙃). I also continue to see the strong need to diversify the people working in tech and software development. While there are many types of personalities in this space, I still notice a lack of what the rest of the country looks like in these spaces. In marketing, communications experts purposefully include a variety of subjects in their research because they know it will result in higher business outcomes for their product. What if the people working to make software looked like a more proportional representation of the rest of our country or even our world? How would that change the outcomes for these products? How would that change the culture of these spaces? Will it ever be enough to eclipse the traditional software engineer stereotype?

I think about this report a lot– I even listed it as a reference on my first full-stack web app. One of the major takeaways I got from it was that women bring a lot of value to companies. Value that they are often not compensated for. A big way they bring value is by saving companies money on reducing turnover and consequently not spending time and money on a revolving door of new hire training. Why do people want to stay at these workplaces with more women and more women in leadership roles? Because they like their jobs! They don’t want to leave workplaces that are healthy, functional, kind, balanced and respect their humanity. Of course this is a generalization to assume all women are contributing to this and that men are not. Going further, women and men of color and from diverse backgrounds surely add to this dynamic as well. It seems to function more as the real world does and I think people like that. A rainforest with a high level of biodiversity is an amazingly productive ecosystem and benevolent habitat to all that live there. I think this is probably true for tech companies too. Life has an uncanny way of mirroring biological systems…or maybe that’s just my brain loving those analogies? To me, communication for us is like the complex interplay of symbiotic organisms in thriving ecosystems. It can make us or break us. So going forward as I learn to grow into this career, I will be intentional to study, reflect and grow in my communication for the better of any ecosystem I am a part of.🌳
