## Develop Carolina: Week 2

Hoo-hooooo, hoo-hoooo. There goes the artificial owl gently hoo-hooing. I roll over and slide the toggle off on my phone alarm. It’s TOTALLY dark. I can’t see anything, so I feel my way over and grab my shoes. Everyone is deeply asleep except for my eager, but still sleepy dogs who cannot wait to eat and go for a walk. Somehow I find my way to the dog leashes and put on my shoes while they eat. We go for our daily walk. It’s cold, totally dark and we often see skunks or coyotes (but definitely not people) because it’s well before dawn. I try to hurry and get back so I can maybe pack the kids lunches and get some coffee before starting my day. I quickly get dressed and head to my basement, put on my bluetooth headphones, turn on my desktop space heater and open my laptop. Zoom’s up…here we go. 

That’s how I’ve started my day everyday for the past two weeks. It’s tiring, it’s new, it’s different, it’s awesome and it’s such a privilege. My kids (and usually my husband) are still asleep when I begin my workday. I don’t have to white knuckle it in traffic trying to rush them to school, while simultaneously trying to get to work on time. I don’t have to start each day with the intense pressure that I’m letting down my kids or my students or sometimes both. I don’t feel the onset of extreme stress every time I see one of my kids sniffle or cough because if they have to stay home from school, IT’S OK! I don’t have to deal with the judgment, disapproval and disappointment from co-workers because I’m calling off work again because my kids are sick. Everyday, I show up ready to learn and I am responsible for my own outcomes. People are kind to me, they respect me as a professional and an individual, encourage me to celebrate my successes and bring my “whole self” to work. It does seem a little too good to be true–but, I’ll ride this train as long as I can. 

In my previous tech experiences, it always felt like I was in the wrong room. I was either the only one with kids, the only career changer or sometimes had a good bit more technical knowledge than others. Now, it feels like I’m in the right room. Not only can I actually fulfill my responsibilities as a professional and a parent, but I am learning and working with a great fit of co-apprentices. In education, we refer to the ‘zone of proximal development’, which is basically a learner’s sweet spot for content: not too easy, not too hard, but just right. I’m in my zone, so-to-speak. There is an amazing amount of built-in and well structured support in place at Develop Carolina. I’m genuinely unsure how I could not grow as a developer in this program. Today, a former graduate of the program said, “This program was the best thing that’s ever happened to me in my life.” That’s a heavy statement with a lot to live up to, but in my first two weeks I can understand why she said that and I’m starting to feel the same way myself.

How can I keep this up for the long term? Honestly, it’s not easy to wake up at 5am everyday. I have been at my computer far longer than I care to admit…I feel drawn to it like the pull of a strong magnet when I’m away. That’s time I should be learning, time I should be preparing, time I should be researching. I’m sure anyone reading this knows that’s not healthy or sustainable. It’s time for a reality check. Although I work with computers all day, I am not one. I can’t escape my humanity or the conditions that make me human. Maybe the key is embracing the things that make me human, with all of the constraints? 

I’ve learned a ton in these first two weeks. I’ve learned the efficiency in reaching out to a person who can help you vs. spending way too long figuring it out on your own. I’ve learned that I NEED to move, not just for my body, but for the efficiency of my thinking as well. I’ve learned that software engineers need to be surprisingly communicative and do so through a plethora of modalities (videos, slack chats, documentation, blogs, webinars, zoom, teams, slack huddles, email, etc.). I’ve learned that software engineers need to be exceptional listeners and really hear someone’s concerns through their words. I’ve learned that unlike a machine that can process and complete tasks in parallel, I cannot. It will be important to learn how to filter and focus on the right information I need at the time. I’d say the thing that has stood out the most this week, is learning to be comfortable being uncomfortable. 

I don’t think I’ve got set practices in place to make these things sustainable yet. But, I can recognize the areas where some management tools should be in place. I’m starting to scan my current environment and my past experiences to help me with those tools. My Develop Carolina mentor suggested we do phone meetings so we can walk and talk….movement! I read an account of a young Tibetan boy who’s father told him at a young age to “make friends with pain”. I can extend this to the idea of making friends with the discomfort of knowing how much I don’t know…perspective and mindfulness. A wonderful panel of Develop Carolina graduates shared that it was their teamwork and ability to communicate well with each other was actually what made them successful and ultimately get hired…efficiency and communication. I’m starting to read the room and pick up gems I can take with me as I go. What a room to read from. This definitely feels like the right room for me.
